---
layout: post
title: Rails Rumble 08
categories: 
- technology
tags:
- agile
- azimuth
- osc
- rails
- rails rumble
- ruby on rails
- web development
---

p. This post is long overdue, but here it goes anyway!

p. Rails Rumble is a new competition set up to promote the Rails framework and Rails development. The competition consists of teams (of 1 to 4 developers) building a Rails application in 48 hours from scratch. Some teams consist of strictly developers and others have a combination of developers and designers. The goal is to develop a mini web app that is functional, useful and presentable in 48 hours to show the awesomeness of Agile development in Rails. I participated in this competition along with 3 other coworkers from OpenSource Connections in the 08 Rumble that took place on the weekend of October the 18th (the start time was 12:00 AM GMT 10/08/08 and the end time was 12:00 AM GMT 10/20/08).

p. My team was struggling to come up with an idea for our application and through discussions about hiking and logging trails and Google Maps we decided to build a treasure hunt application that used latitude and longitude coordinates to place or "hide" treasures on a map and then the players or "hunters" would have to figure out those coordinates (with some proximity factored in) to unlock the treasure and get the next clue. Each treasure has points associated with it and the team or individual that accumulates the most points wins (usually by solving all the clues). We envisioned the process to use handheld GPS systems or iPhones or any tool that allows a person to determine her current position or web tools to be able to figure out the coordinates of the different treasures in the hunt. We included a text messaging system that makes it possible to use the application through a mobile phone, allowing users to participate in a treasure hunt without relying on an internet connection (except for signing up). We also added a feature that we called the "key" which is an alternative for the coordinates and it is basically a pass-phrase that can be associated with a treasure and would be placed at its location that a hunter can use instead of the coordinates to unlock the next clue.

p. The application is currently in a beta version, all the features that were described were implemented during the 48 hours but we hope to add more once the voting is over for the competition. There are small bugs or changes that we would also like to implement before a full release. You can still check it out at <a href="http://osc.r08.railsrumble.com" target="_blank">http://osc.r08.railsrumble.com</a>. Also check out one of my teammates' blog post about it: <a title="Arin's post" href="http://www.opensourceconnections.com/2008/10/21/azimuth-treasure-hunt-app-release-the-hounds/" target="_blank">Arin's post </a>and pictures at: <a title="flickr pool" href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/gfairbrother/2959717411/in/pool-railsrumble2008/" target="_blank">flickr pool</a>