---
layout: post
title: C & C Red Alert 3
categories: 
- gaming
- opinion
tags:
- command and conquer
- gaming
- red alert
---

p. I remember when I got my first PC game. My aunt was in Lebanon visiting from KSA and she want to buy some games to take back with her for her son (it was hard to find any video games in Saudi at the time, or anything for that matter). I got intrigued and wanted to find out more about this thing called gaming. One of the games that my cousin wanted was called Red Alert, so I got myself a copy, installed it on my computer, started the first mission and had my MCV drive around for half an hour trying to figure out what that thing did. I kept on getting attacked and had to repeat the damn mission about 5 times before someone told me that I had to deploy the MCV and then start constructing other buildings. Once I figured out the game play, I soon became hooked on this thing.

p. Fast forward 12 years, Red Alert 2 and a couple of expansion packs later, and it is still one of the best games I have ever played on the PC. Probably only second to Max Payne. It's 2008 and Red Alert 3 comes out and I finally get my hands on a copy. I am excited and can't wait to see all the new and improved things the game has to offer. Installing it was a bit of a pain, my desktop is old and slow so it took a while for it to complete, especially since my computer froze midway. Once it was complete, I started the game, watched the movie that sets up the game and its context, quit and went to bed... I said what? Yes you read it correctly, I quit and went to bed. The acting in the movie was silly, kind of funny but still ridiculous. I did start the first mission but after the first look at the graphics and everything else, I started understanding why some people were saying that it is a disappointment.

p. After so many years, I expected a lot of this game. I expected it to be yet another "greatest game ever" but I didn't get that feeling. I played a few missions and the reaction to them is: 'eh...nothing special' and my brother and I did try the 'Versus' game mode on our LAN. We first tried it against each other and then teamed up against two computer bots. That was a bit interesting, we had the computer at the medium level and we kept and running out of money and then attacked immediately. By the time I got to build my Ore refineries I would be virtually out of money and then would have to wait to be able to get some troops, but by then I would be already under attack. We then tried it under easy, and that was just too easy. By the time I built up my defenses expecting a quick attack, my brother had a mini army and managed to defeat the first computer player and soon after we killed off the second one.

p. This is definitely going down the disappointment path, but hopefully there campaign will have an amusing plot and will make it worth the time. After all this time and the previous releases, it is a shame that Red Alert 3 does not reflect the same brilliance as its predecessors.