---
layout: post
title: Gaming
categories: 
- gaming
tags:
- gaming
- gta
- halo
- rainbow six
- tom clancy
- vegas 2
- xbox
---

p. I finished a game! I repeat, I FINISHED a video game! it has been very very long since the last time I played a video game from start to finish. School did not come in the way. I did not reach a point where I got stuck and lost interest in the game. The game wasn't too long and boring. My computer did not crash and I lost all saved games. No, none of that. I actually finished an entire game by myself. No cheats, no walk-throughs, nothing. It's been an estranged feeling for a long time, and it's good to be back.

p. If you are wondering about the game, don't get your hopes up too high. It's not one of the most anticipated games of the year. It's just Rainbow Six's Vegas 2. It's a Tom Clancy game, which makes it good by default, but it's not GTA4 nor is it Assassin's Creed or Halo 3. But all of that is on the way. I've got my Xbox 360, I have my copy of Halo 3 which I have not opened yet, and my copy of GTA4. I already started GTA4 and plan on finishing what I started. So watch out for a future post on that one.

p. My brother is a huge Halo fan and will be moving in with me in the next week. So as a moving in gift and celebration we will be co-oping Halo 3, another blog post topic to look for. He's been waiting for this moment for a long time and I have been waiting to get back into the gaming world for more than 4 years now. It's about time!

p. Wow, it feels great...